# A moment on mindset
This course is very fast paced as is intended to be challenging, and you wouldn't be here if we didn't believe in you. Strive to achieve as much as you can, but most importantly *do not get discouraged*. You're fitting a huge amount of experience into a brief period of time, and have the internet as well as your classmates and instructor to help you navigate the challenge.

Important for both the course and beyond is nurturing a growth mindset. One of the glorious aspects of software development is that you'll never know everything there is to know because things simply change too quickly (*especially* in web development)*. This can either be frustrating or invigorating; but learning to love learning will serve you very well when developing. 

1. Get used to failing; it's gonna happen every day for the rest of your development life. It Is Good.

2. Ask questions. [Seriously](http://jvns.ca/blog/2014/06/13/asking-questions-is-a-superpower/).

3. Understanding will take time! Be patient with yourself, and see #2 if you aren't happy with your level of understanding. In most cases you won't have a complete understanding of a topic by the end of lecture.

[Here's a great overview](https://skillcrush.com/2014/06/26/the-developer-mindset/) of the developer mindset.

## Experimentation
Expect to be searching for answers often. StackOverflow and Google are permanently opened in a tab for me when I'm coding, even after many years. It is extremely difficult to permanently break anything, so get ready to bask in your mistakes. Learn from them.

Furthermore, I strongly encourage you to experiment with new technologies, features, and libraries once you feel like you understand the content that we have time to cover here. It's a mighty big universe out there. 

\** Check out [modulecounts](http://www.modulecounts.com/) for counts of packages available for a few popular programming languages. That doesn't even count build tools and other services or utilies that can dramatically change how you get stuff done!*