# Code
Coding is teaching computers how to do things. Unlike humans, we need to be completely unambiguous with computers. We use well-defined languages (Javascript in this course, but there more languages than you can shake a proverbial stick at) to describe how something should work, and computers execute precisely what we ask them to.

'Programs' are simply files that contain code that a computer knows how to interpret. Every program that runs on your computer, microwave, car, phone, washing machine, and watch contains code that provides instructions to the computer running the object. In the Javascript world, most code is written for web browsers like Chrome, Internet Explorer, and Safari; these browsers are also programs that have code that teaches them how to interpret and run Javascript.

## Writing code
For beginners, the hodgepodge of keywords, symbols, and terms that developers type looks like a scene straight out of The Matrix; in reality, the list of keywords in a programming language is limited and learnable by an individual, but the thought process *behind* writing code is complex and is where the challenge lies. 

The symbols and ordering of terms in a program, though it may seem complex, is really the first step, comparable to learning the vocabulary of a new human language. Don't be discouraged if all of the words don't make complete sense right away. The real fun is in writing stories, not learning the words themselves.

**General rule:** if you don't understand a piece of code, learn about it. There are often multiple ways to accomplish a given task, and learning the pros and cons of one approach versus another won't only help with that particular context but will make you more proficient with the language overall.