# The console
The console is an extraordinarily powerful tool though it may make a bit of getting used to. The console (or "terminal") was one of the earliest interfaces to computers and provide unbridled access to almost anything that your computer can do, including both programs that came with your computer's operating system or those that you picked up (or wrote yourself) afterwards.

Generally speaking, the console is really useful for three reasons:
  1. For many people, typing is faster than using a mouse.
  2. User interfaces are necessary limited in what they can do since you can't have an obvious button for every feature without making things very crowded. Consoles don't need to consume precious pixels for each feature, so there's effectively no limit to the features you can add for a console application.
  3. Scripting, or automating, console applications is extremely easy compared to applications with graphical user interfaces. For example, if you want to run a program every night at midnight once you and your coworkers have gone home, it's trivial to do with a console application.

Take a look at [Ryan Tablada's](https://rtablada.gitbooks.io/front-end-engineering-june-2015/content/prework/console.html) recommended resources and list of starter tasks to get going. Basic familiarity with how to create and move files, navigate through folders, and run commands will be important both for the course and beyond, and you'll be able to continue learning more about the console's power for years to come.

Note that the commands available to you in your computer's terminal will vary depend on the operating system you're running, but the commands on Macs and Linux tend to be familiar. Windows commands can be a bit different.