# HTML
HTML is referred to as a "markup language" and is what defines the structure of content in our web apps. This page, for example, is divided up into a title with a series of distinct paragraphs, each of which is distiguished to the web browser using HTML. Every website uses HTML, and it's absolutely fundamental to the way the web works today.

**Pro tip:** Google is really your best friend for learning (or remembering) HTML. There's an extraordinary amount of really great information out there. Understanding how to structure web pages and some of the most useful tags is important, and you can keep a link to a [cheat sheet](http://websitesetup.org/html5-cheat-sheet/) around for more obscure tags. Some very common HTML tags include: 

  - Paragraphs (`p`)
  - Headers (`h1`, `h2`, `h3`, etc)
  - Forms (`form`, `input`)
  - Images and graphics (`img`, `canvas`)
  - Lists (`ul`, `ol`, `li`)
  - Tables (`table`, `th`, `tr`, `td`)
  
Note that HTML defines *structure* and content, but does not affect how the elements themselves appear (fonts, colors, positions, etc). That's where [CSS](content/1.4.md) comes in. Work through the [CodeAcademy course](https://www.codecademy.com/tracks/web) on HTML and CSS if you're not familiar with them, and make sure you both get a sense of the difference between HTML and CSS, as well as get a feel for some of the most useful tags.

## Big ideas
**HTML is hierarchical**, meaning that individual elements are related to each other in a 'parent-child' relationship. Elements often contain other elements, and those inner elements can contain other elements. This is useful for expressing the structure of data and how several pieces of data might be related to each other (an image and a caption, for example).

**HTML is designed for describing the structure of a document *to computers*.** When possible, use [semantic tags](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1729447/what-are-the-benefits-of-using-semantic-html): label navigation as `<nav>`, headers as `<h1>, <h2>, etc`, tables as `<table>`, and so on not for the appearance that it generates in the browser but because it accurately describes the information contained within it.

**There are many ways to present the same information.** What information *is* is different than how it looks. Avoid the desire to choose your tags based on how it's going to make something look; CSS can be used to make any element look as desired.


## Dive deeper
The fun doesn't need to stop there; here are a few other resources that'll give you an into to HTML and some features of the latest specification, HTML5.

* [Codepen](http://codepen.io/) is a great place to test out HTML, CSS, and JS together or independently. They've also got a bunch of examples that others have created.
* Take a look at the HTML of your favorite website. See if you can form an opinion on how their information should be structured, and then check to see whether it's done as you expected. Remember that there may be more than one 'right' answer, and it's possible that yours may be better than what's actually there, especially if the site is old.