# The command line
Though it might not feel like it at first, mastery of command line basics is essential for any developer (and extremely useful for non-devs) and will make your life much easier. The command line is just another way of giving your computer instructions (like clicking on an icon) but generally allows for much greater flexibility than graphical interfaces do. The command line is called **Terminal** on Macs.

The command line can be daunting for many people when getting started, but it's absolutely essential. You will love it once it clicks.

## Things to do
- Run through the [Learn the Command Line the Hard Way crash course](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/appendixa.html). Follow the examples, and don't worry if you don't completely get everything right away. We'll be using these commands daily.
- Read [this Lifehacker article](http://lifehacker.com/5633909/who-needs-a-mouse-learn-to-use-the-command-line-for-almost-anything) about the command line for beginners.
- Optional: [Console Foundations](https://teamtreehouse.com/library/console-foundations#getting-started-with-the-console) course from Treehouse

## Big ideas
**All interfaces are designed as ways for us to interact with machines.** Icons, mice, voice controls, the command line, and [advanced brain interfaces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain%E2%80%93computer_interface) serve the same purpose, though they come with different advantages and disadvantages. For example, while icons and a mouse makes it easy to discover certain features ('I wonder what this button does...'), there is a limit to how many buttons or menus you can put on a screen. This limit does not exist with command line interfaces.

**A huge variety of tools already exist.** Many common tasks can be performed using existing command line tools (programs), or through a combination of available tools.