# Browsers
Browsers are the programs we commonly use to communicate over the web. Modern browsers such as Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer, and Opera are complex beasts composed of many parts and maintained by large teams. Today, modern browsers are guided by industry specifications on languages like HTML, CSS, and Javascript so there's at least agreement on what we want to do (even if they don't always do it quite right).

For our purposes today, there are a few key functions that are important to understand about browsers.
- **They make web requests.** When we provide a URL, click on a link, or somehow request more information, the browser send that request out over the internet. As frontend developers, we can also make invisible requests behind the scenes on behalf of users.
- **They receive and interpret web responses.** When the server responds to the web request, the browser knows how to interpret the response, which is usually a combination of HTML and CSS. They also know to create new requests for images, stylesheets, Javascript files, etc that appear in an HTML response.
- **They execute Javascript.** Once a page has been loaded, the browser is also responsible for running any Javascript present on the page. 

## tomayto, tomahto
Unfortunately for us, not all browsers run the same code for the above tasks, so we get inconsistencies from one browser to another. [Caniuse.com](http://caniuse.com/) is a useful resource for identifying which features of HTML, CSS, and JS work on each browser and which may run into trouble.

Another important thing to note is that old browsers usually don't know how to use new features. Remember to be careful to test newer language features on browsers that you care about when you're developing. There are tools like [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) and [Modernizr](https://modernizr.com/) can help you work with the massive variety of browsers and browser versions out there.