# The web
We're all regular users of the internet but as developers we need to understand a bit more about what's happening behind the scenes than the average person. In practice, a thorough understanding of how the internet works can help us speed up sites, create designs that will work in the browsers of the future (including potentially non-visual ones), and generally design applications that are a blast to use.

## The internet and the world wide web
The internet and the web are often used interchangably, though they're not exactly the same. The internet refers to the network of computers that are accessible via common infrastructure; only some of these computers can be accessed through a web browser. The web, on the other hand, is a specific method of communicating on the internet; specifically, the web uses protocols and technologies designed for transmitting documents like web pages.

The web is therefore one method of communicating (or using) the internet. 

In case you're the sort for analogies, here's a cookie: think of the internet as the system of highways, roads, and interstates, and the web as the postal service. If there were no roads then it'd be really hard to make a highly functional postal service, but no one would say that the postal service *is* the highway system. Similarly, the road network can be used for many things other than mail delivery, even though that's a very common use case.

## Clients and servers
The core feature of the internet is that it allows computers to communicate with each other; this is the underlying feature that the web (and all other applications on the internet) is built on. Most web interactions occur between a 'client' (the user viewing a particular page) and a 'server' (the computer that provides the page the user wants to see); the client sends a request for a particular page by specifying a URL, usually with a web browser, and the server responds, usually with the content of a web page. 

The client and server could be on the other end of the world from each other but the communication is usually pretty quick. If you make too many requests (especially slow ones or ones that return very large responses) then users may feel the slowdown on their side.

## Big ideas
**The internet is a giant computer network that allows computers to communicate with each other.** The internet can be used for many different things, though the web is the most widely-known use case. The web inherently involves communicating over geographic distances, which takes time (usually in the 10's of milliseconds from a wired connection or 100's of milliseconds from a wireless connection).

**The web is generally accessed by users on a client (browser) communicating with a server.** Browsers know how to send requests to servers and properly interpret the response. Browsers have built-in functionality that allows them to interpret and render (draw) HTML and CSS, as well as the ability to run Javascript.

**How a web page appears depends on how the browser interprets the response.** Most browsers use different code to render HTML and CSS and to interpret and run Javascript. This means that a user on Safari may see a page differently than a user on Chrome, even if the HTML and CSS they receive is exactly the same.

## Things to do
* Open up the **Terminal** on your Mac and type `ping google.com` to send a quick message to Google's web servers. When you run that command you'll see a field labeled `time` in the response, which indicates how long it takes for your computer to connect to google.com and receive a response. Try this for other smaller websites as well; you may notice that certain sites take quite a bit longer than other sites, depending on where they are geographically and how quickly they're able to respond to your requests.
* Open up [Chrome Developer Tools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/) and open the Network tab. Navigate to a variety of different websites and you should see rows appear in the body of the Network tab. Each row indicates a request and response from a server, and the round trip time is also displayed; you can probably tell how the number of length of requests affects the load time of the page.